LUMI-K documentation (#259)
Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide: docs/compute/lumi-k/getting-started/lumik_login.md

# LUMI-K projects vs LUMI projects

All applications deployed in LUMI-K run within **projects** (also known as Namespaces) that can be
created by any authenticated user. It is important differentiate **LUMI-K projects** and **LUMI projects**.
You can think about a LUMI project as an umbrella for all your LUMI-K projects. When creating a LUMI-K project,
you will be asked to provide the LUMI project number to be associated with it. You need to have at least one active
LUMI project to be able to log in to LUMI-K and create LUMI-K projects. One LUMI project can be associated with multiple
LUMI-K projects. Users can only see LUMI-K projects created by themselves or by their LUMI project team members.

# Login to LUMI-K

1. Apply for a LUMI project by following these [instructions](../../../firststeps/accessLUMI.md), note that you do not 

> need to configure an SSH key to start using LUMI-K . If you already have a LUMI project used for accessing other LUMI 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need to configure an SSH key to start using LUMI-K . If you already are part of a LUMI project used for accessing other LUMI 
```

Reviewer 2: fixed in [cee85c5](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide/pull/259/commits/cee85c570c112902e599644d3f74c2a253a560c3)

> services (e.g., LUMI-G and LUMI-O), you can skip this step as you will already have default access to LUMI-K.

Reviewer 3: This point is inaccurate. It should say "apply for a LUMI project".

Reviewer 2: fixed in [c5cc42a](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide/pull/259/commits/c5cc42a80a4bef752c24f0314e713090dfaf1112)

2. Log in to LUMI-K at [https://console.lumi-k.eu/](https://console.lumi-k.eu/). Choose HAKA, CSC, or Puhuri depending on your organization. 

    !!! Warning "User not found"
        If you get an error message similar to this please make sure to create a LUMI project as described in the previous step.

>         If you have just created a LUMI project, it might take up to 10 minutes for your profile information to be synced to LUMI-K.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        If you get an error message similar to this please make sure that you are part of a LUMI project as described in the previous step.
        If your LUMI project has just been created, it might take up to 10 minutes for your profile information to be synced to LUMI-K.
```

Reviewer: Is it really that fast to sync to LUMI-K (10 minutes)? 
Also for projects created in Puhuri?

Reviewer 2: fixed in [cee85c5](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide/pull/259/commits/cee85c570c112902e599644d3f74c2a253a560c3)

We have a user syncing script running every 10 minutes which sync the users with CSC LDAP. It takes also the puhuri users from CSC LDAP so as long as a puhuri user exist in csc ldap, it should sync within 10 minutes.

Reviewer: I checked about this, and it takes about 0.5-2 hours to sync from Puhuri to CSC LDAP, when a LUMI project is created in Puhuri portal. 
Because of this, I think we should change the sentence to indicate that "it might take up to 2 hours". And then it's a positive surprise for the user, if it's much faster :)

Reviewer 2: I think we can mention this in an additional line something like "If the LUMI project was created through the Puhuri portal, synchronization may take up to two hours to complete."

Reviewer: Most of the LUMI projects are Puhuri projects, and that's why we should view the Puhuri projects as the "default project type". The Finnish national projects are the only ones managed by myCSC. All the EuroHPC JU projects, and projects by other consortium countries, are Puhuri projects. 
Also, all the users might not know that their project is managed by Puhuri. This word might not mean anything to many users such that they would realize it's about their project, especially if it sounds like an exception to what happens normally

Reviewer 2: Ah right, I thought it was the other way around for most users. I will change it to 2 hours from 10 mins.

Reviewer 2: fixed in [ea36e19](https://github.com/Lumi-supercomputer/lumi-userguide/pull/259/commits/ea36e19a454fa8c7231318956eceb51f5c604df5)
